the key language feature that we're
going to use to make it more natural to
represent the entire universe of dogs or
whatever else is that classes in Java
can contain not just functions but also
data so what I mean by that is that we
are going to augment our dog class so
the dogs have properties like size and
that class is going to serve as the
blueprint for all dogs out there and
then we're going to instantiate that
class and two specific objects that we
can then manipulate now that'll make
more sense once we actually try out an
example so let's jump right up so
hopefully you've seen something pretty
much like this I know some of the people
taking this class are coming from a
MATLAB only background I have a little
example here that you can read to get a
sense of what this is all about but
let's try it out in Java and see what
it's like to make a dog blueprint so
what I'm going to do I'll reopen my dog
class and I'm gonna say a dog is not
just a noise making machine actually a
dog also has a property that property is
a dog is going to have let's say a
weight in pounds so as an American I use
the bizarre pounds system as opposed to
kilograms we're just going to roll with
it and that specifies how big the dog is
then what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
change the make noise method and it's
going to have a few cases so if the
weight in pounds of a dog is less than
say 10 we're gonna say it's going to yet
otherwise if the wave in pounds is less
than 30 then we will say that it barks
otherwise it's such a large dog that it
has a wolf sound okay so there's no
Malamutes here like that dog we had with
the beautiful hmm
so will default to wolf for large dogs
so that's the make noise method and now
if we try and compile our dog class I
get this funny message non-static
variable weight in pounds cannot be
referenced from a static context so
we'll get a better sense for what that
means women
tell you that the simple solution for us
right now this is not always the right
solution we get this compiler message
but what I'm gonna do here is just
delete the word static and we'll pick
apart why that is now if I try copilot
dog Java compiles and this is now a
blueprint for all dogs it can have
different behavior based on the weight
and pounds of the dog and just glorious
then let's go into dog launcher and see
what things are like so if we now try to
compile dog launcher we get a non static
method make noise cannot be referenced
from a static context okay so you might
be tempted to delete the word static
that is not the right answer here what
we want to do instead this is gonna be a
new piece of syntax I'm gonna say I need
a specific dog okay so I'm gonna say
this is totally new syntax dog t equals
new dog this means create a dog okay a
new dog and let's call that dog in this
case D okay then what I'm gonna do is
say D dot weight in pounds equals let's
say 25 so the dog now gains a certain
weight and then instead of saying dog
not make noise I'm gonna say D make
noise okay that's a really important
point so this is like saying great sky
dog the Platonic ideal of all dogs
please make a noise but if we look at
the dog class this is expecting a
specific dog to be making noise it's
saying if my weight if me me you know
Maya or whoever Yap stir if my weight in
pounds is less than 10 I'm going to do
this and so forth so instead what I need
to do is reference a specific dog in
fact in this case it's the one I just
made so if I do Java C dog watcher Java
and then do GABA dog launcher I get bark
because it's a 25 pound dog
I do 51 and I recompile and run it then
I get move all right so what this piece
of code does is it creates a dog sets
its weight and then makes that specific
dog make noise okay and we'll be picking
more carefully what static means apart
in a minute but it's want to make sure
this syntax makes it is clear for naught
so what I'm gonna do is one last little
tweak to this dog class and dog launcher
class before I move on and kind of
reflect on what we've done so for those
of you with some object-oriented
programming experience which is
hopefully almost everybody you're
probably used to the idea that setting
variables like this manually is kind of
strange
so more typically what we'll do is the
dog launcher class when we create the
dog will actually give it as a parameter
to the dog creation process so I'm gonna
get rid of this and so in order to
enable this I mean if I try it right now
it's not gonna work it's gonna say
constructor class and dog cannot be
applied to given types data so what it's
saying is I don't know what to do with
this number so to fix that what we're
gonna do is create a special thing kind
of like a method known as a constructor
so I'm just gonna say public dog in W
and this is a this is the constructor
for I'll call the one integer
constructor for dogs so what's that what
that's going to do is if I say new dog
and give an integer this constructor
will get called and that will specify
how the dog is created so in this case
the constructor is kind of trivial the
weight in pounds should just be set
equal to W and so now if I try running
dog launcher I run it and I get wolf
right so this code is now functioning
because now I've added this constructor
if you came from a language like Python
this is very similar to the init method
the classes have one little side note
I'll make is you'll notice I didn't
recompile the dog class it turns out
that the java c command in Java is very
smart and if you make a change the dog
and recompile a dog launcher it'll
realize there's a dependency dog launch
or needs dog to work and it'll actually
also recompile dog undo that